2019–20 coronavirus pandemic.

"Coronavirus outbreak" redirects here. For other outbreaks of coronaviruses, see Coronavirus § Outbreaks.
2019–20 coronavirus pandemic
COVID-19 Outbreak World Map per Capita.svg
Map of confirmed cases per capita as of 1 April 2020
  1,000+ confirmed cases per million
  100–1,000 confirmed cases per million
  10–100 confirmed cases per million
  1–10 confirmed cases per million
  >0–1 confirmed cases per million
  No confirmed cases or no data
Total confirmed cases map
Deaths per capita map
Confirmed cases per capita interactive timeline
Coronavirus patients on ventilators at the Imam Khomeini Hospital in Tehran
Meeting of the Italian government task force to face the coronavirus outbreak, 23 February 2020.
Taiwanese 33rd Chemical Corps spraying disinfectant on a street in Taipei
Passengers at Linate Airport in Milan have their temperatures taken
Almost empty supermarket aisle in Melbourne, Australia
(clockwise from top)
Hospitalized patients in TehranDisinfection vehicles in TaipeiLow stocks at an Australian supermarket due to panic buyingHealth checks at Linate Airport in MilanThe Italian government's outbreak task force.
Disease	Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
Virus strain	Severe acute respiratory syndrome
coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
Source	Bats or possibly pangolins
Location	Worldwide (list of locations)
First outbreak	Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market
Index case	Wuhan, Hubei, China
30°37'11?N 114°15'28?E
Date	1 December 2019 – ongoing
(4 months)
Confirmed cases	>859,000
Recovered	>178,000
Deaths
>42,000
Territories
200+[5]

The 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic is an ongoing pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).[6] The outbreak was first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020 and recognized it as a pandemic on 11 March 2020.[7][8] As of 1 April 2020, more than 859,000 cases of COVID-19 have been reported in over 200 countries and territories, resulting in approximately 42,000 deaths.[5] More than 178,000 people have recovered.[5]

The virus is mainly spread by fomites and, during close contact, by respiratory droplets produced when people cough or sneeze.Respiratory droplets may be produced during breathing but the virus is not generally airborne. It is most contagious when people are symptomatic, although spread may be possible before symptoms appear.[11] The time between exposure and symptom onset is typically around five days, but may range from 2 to 14 days.[13][14] Common symptoms include fever, cough, and shortness of breath.[13] Complications may include viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome.[15] There is no known vaccine or specific antiviral treatment.[9] Primary treatment is symptomatic and supportive therapy.[16] Recommended preventive measures include hand washing, covering one's mouth when coughing, maintaining distance from other people, and monitoring and self-isolation for people who suspect they are infected.

Efforts to prevent the virus spreading include travel restrictions, quarantines, curfews, workplace hazard controls, event postponements and cancellations, and facility closures. These include the quarantine of Hubei,[18] national or regional quarantines elsewhere in the world, curfew measures in China and South Korea, various border closures or incoming passenger restrictions, screening at airports and train stations,[24] and outgoing passenger travel bans.

The pandemic has led to severe global socioeconomic disruption,[29] the postponement or cancellation of sporting, religious, and cultural events,[30] and widespread fears of supply shortages resulting in panic buying.Schools and universities have closed either on a nationwide or local basis in more than 160 countries, affecting more than 1.5 billion students.[33] Misinformation and conspiracy theories about the virus have spread online[34][35] and there have been incidents of xenophobia and racism against Chinese and other East and Southeast Asian people and, as the disease spread, to European people.

How dangerous is the coronavirus Covid-19 is deadly, although fatality rates skyrocket for the elderly and those with compromised immune systems.How has the coronavirus affected you Well if you ask me personally, the outbreak of novel Coronavirus, has affected me significantly. Both in respect of career and in respect of mental health. Is there a treatment for the Coronavirus They are experimenting with various medicines and it seems some anti-malarial drugs show promise. However, they help only a little bit, as evidenced by the mortality rate in places like Italy or Spain. They are best if administered early, before the lungs are damaged. Is there a vaccine for the coronavirus We don’t “find” vaccines. That’s the language yellow media uses, but it’s far from the truth.

We know the virus, and we know what it looks like. Now we need to produce a sufficient amount of attenuated virii. For that, we inject the virus into a foreign host, like a chicken embryo in an egg. Most viruses will die, because the host is so different from humans, that it can not work. Some will mutate to work, and those multiply.How did coronaviruses get their name The coronavirus family was discovered first in 1960s but we don’t know where they come from. They get the name given their crown-like (“corona”) shape. Following a December 2019 outbreak in China, the World Health Organization identified a new type called 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).What are coronaviruses Coronavirus is a name for a group of viruses that target mammals, including cats, dogs, and humans. They’re well known for causing potentially fatal conditions like kidney failure, pneumonia but also mundane things like some instances of the common cold.

Does coronavirus cause death Statistically speaking, you have a 98% chance of survival, and 80% chance that you won’t need medical care at all even if you get infected, so stay positive, stay at home as much as possible, eat healthy, treat everyone as if they are infected, treat other as if you are infected. Many people get infected and get better without even knowing they had it.What can one do to prepare for the coronavirus? What should one buy or do regularly So, one thing you might do before it hits your region is to buy enough food for your freezer as well as canned goods and stock it so that, when the Virus hits, you won’t be running out into a store crowded with infected people. When it hits, stay home for work and school and strictly avoid crowded places. Stock up on real bar soap (like Ivory Gold) and wash hands frequently. Avoid sanitizers. Try to avoid clinics or EDs unless your symptoms become an issue as you don’t want to spread the disease beyond your home. Stock up on jello, G-Zero, plain decongestants like Mucinex, Bouillon or clear soups, lots of Kleenex and avoid solids and dairy products while you are symptomatic. The rest is just common sense.What should I buy to prepare for a coronavirus epidemic if I had to stay in my home for a very long time So, one thing you might do before it hits your region is to buy enough food for your freezer as well as canned goods and stock it so that, when the Virus hits, you won’t be running out into a store crowded with infected people. When it hits, stay home for work and school and strictly avoid crowded places. Stock up on real bar soap (like Ivory Gold) and wash hands frequently. Avoid sanitizers. Try to avoid clinics or EDs unless your symptoms become an issue as you don’t want to spread the disease beyond your home. Stock up on jello, G-Zero, plain decongestants like Mucinex, Bouillon or clear soups, lots of Kleenex and avoid solids and dairy products while you are symptomatic. The rest is just common sense.

What are the symptoms of Coronavirus The symptoms of this virus include high fever, respiratory problems, shortness of breath and coughing. In extreme cases, it can even lead to pneumonia, kidney failure and death.To prevent infection from spreading, one should wash hands regularly, cover mouth and nose while coughing and sneezing and eat properly cook meat and eggs.